##Decisions, Decisions

If you think about it, music making (just like any other type of creativity) is a sequence of decision making processes. For example, a conventional approach to make a beat is to start with selecting some drum sounds and making a rhythmic pattern. After creating a beat you can start putting melodies and samples and ultimately you will have a beat. Every change in the pattern, every little tweak in effects processing, every tweak in the EQ is a decision making process which will determine the characteristics of a piece of art. 

##Semantics are Evil!

Although this decisions are essentially what makes every art piece "different" from others, we are quite limited in making these decisions. There are a series of parameters that effect our decisions when creating art and every decision will effect our next. For example, when I am looking through my sound library for a kick, I listen to each one, then I choose the one that I think sounds good in that particular moment. And the first choice will normally dictate my next decisions somehow. Even the way a sequence pattern looks like can effect our decisions and even user interface designs can trick us into thinking something sounds good or bad. What normally happens is that I find myself choosing very similar sounds as time passes and this frustrates me as an artist to see how limited and my creativity becomes. 

##The Computer is Better Than Me!

Last august, I wrote a tutorial series on [Computer Music Magazine](http://www.musicradar.com/computermusic) called "Phat Chance". In these article I shared my ideas and techniques on how we can use randomisation in our advantage and ultimately to make the computer be creative for us in ways that we are not able to. What computers are really better than us is the amount of decisions they are capable of making in a really short amount of time. A "for" loop that iterates through a large library of sound and selects a series of them happens in a fraction of a second for a computer where as it might take a long time for me to do so. And as mentioned before, my decisions are going to be limited to my sonic background therefore limits the possibilities of combining sounds but the computer's decision will be theoretically randomised and totally different nearly every time.

##Coding Time
Enough talking, lets take a look at some code. Just to be clear again, __the idea is to get a series of random sounds from SoundCloud in real-time and generatively make a beat__ using those as samples.

I will use SoundCloud API's `GET` method for each sound. The API offers a set of parameters for filtering your search such as `query` or `tags`. But by only using these filters, the result will be the same every time. For example, if I make a `get` request to find a random kick sound (code snippet below), I will get the same sounds every time.

`````
var parameters = {
    q: kick,
    tags: "kick,808"
};

SC.get('/tracks',parameters,function(tracks){
    //will return an array that contains the results
    //but results are going to be the same every time
});
`````
But to dig deeper to the library, there are more filters available to use such as `duration` which lets you specify a duration range and `created_at` which gives you the option to access sounds from specific dates. These two parameters can be heavily randomised in order to get different sounds every time. For this, I created a function called `generateParameters` that will choose random dates every time allowing for deeper access to various sounds in the library. Also helps to load shorter sounds for percussive sounds for faster results.

`````
var parameters = {

    duration:{
		from: durationFrom,
		to: durationTo
	},
	
	limit: 50,
	q: query,
	tags: tags,

	//randomises the date for different results
		
	created_at:{
		to: date
	}
		
};
    
````
This will return 50 random tracks (if available) that matches the input search criteria. Then one of those sounds are randomly selected and stored in the buffer for later playback.

##Beat Structure

We will have five sounds. Conventional kick, snare, hat and a percussion sounds for the drum beat, and one main sample. All of the drum sounds will use relatively short `duration` and specific `q` for each but the main sample will use long `duration` and a empty `q` parameter for more possible variety. This means a kick will always be a kick sounds but the main sample will vary each time. Maybe it will be a spoken word, a full song or a field recording.

The possibilities are endless...