I have been making music for a long time now. Most of my music is sample-based and is made by recycling existing sounds into new music. In 2012, I released an EP which consited my remixes of old Iranian pop songs.

Well, the days of debating whether or not sample-based music is eligible to be called music is sort of over now and we already know that Everything is a Remix. In case of music, we know how sampling has shaped the way most music sounds today and despite some legal issues, the music industry has made its piece with this phenomenon.

Although the idea of sampling is deeply integrated with music making, the ways of which producers approach sampling have been evolving alongside technology. In the 60's, Delia Derbyshire and her colleagues at BBC Radiophonic Workshop made extensive use of magnetic tape. Grand Master Flash used vinyl records as the sample source for scratching. Later generations used digital formats such as CD's and MP3's but today, Youtube, SoundCloud and even streaming services such as Spotify are known to be the first go-to library for finding sample-ready material for most of producers.

The people mentioned above are basically doing the same thing but the difference is in the limitation of their resources. The ones who used magnetic tape were limited by the amount of recorded tape they had in the studio, early turntablists were limited by the amount of rare and unique vinyls they could get their hands on and the early digital generation were limited by their hard drive capacity.

In my opinion, there is two main factors that make today's sampling experience different than the previous. First, the amount of accessible content (music in our case) is overwhelmingly huge. As an example, 12 hours of audio content is being uploaded to SoundCloud every minute. This makes SoundCloud one of the biggest audio libraries in the world if not the biggest. The second major difference is that by having services such as SoundCloud, you are not only limited to conventional recorded and published music as you would have with services such as Spotify or iTunes, but you also have access to user-generated content.

For me, having this many sounds means unlimited possibilities for creating newer ones. Last year, I started discovering this idea of making new art out of user-generated content called Tumblr-Mashr. As you would guess from the title, I experimented with generative texture creation using real-time gifs from Tumblr. In this project, I want to take this concept and apply it to sound. Luckily enough, using SoundCloud API we can access these sounds and we can process them in the browser using Web Audio API. I am planing to discover the possibilities of using this huge library to create new content in real-time.